Interview Questions:

❖ Is there a way to erase all files in the current directory, including all its sub-directories, using 
only one command?
ANS: rm -r command  is using for erase all files in the current directory including all its sub-directories.

❖ What is a directory? 
ANS: Every file is assigned to a directory. A directory is a specialized form of a file that maintains a list of all files in it.

❖ Differentiate relative path from an absolute path.
ANS:Relative path refers to the path relative to the current path. 
    An absolute path, on the other hand, refers to the exact path as referenced from the root directory.

❖ Enumerate some of the most commonly used network commands in UNIX
ANS:	1.telnet – used for remote login
	2.ping – an echo request for testing connectivity
	3.su – user switching command
	4.ftp – file transfer protocol used for copying files
	5.finger – information gathering command

❖ Differentiate cmp command from diff command.
ANS:The cmp command is used mainly to compare two files byte by byte, 
    after which the first encountered mismatch is shown. 
    On the other hand, the diff command is used to indicate the changes that is to be made in order to
     make the two files identical to each other.


❖ What is the use of -l when listing a directory?
ANS:-l, which is normally used in listing command like ls, 
    is used to show files in a long format, one file per line. 
    Long format refers to additional information that is associated with the file, 
    such as ownership, permissions, data, and filesize.


❖ What is piping?
ANS: Piping, represented by the pipe character “|”, is used to combine two or more commands together.
 The output of the first command serves as input the next command, and so on.

❖ How do you determine and set the path in UNIX?
ANS:Each time you enter a command, a variable named PATH or path will define in which directory the shell will search for that command.
   In cases wherein an error message was returned, the reason maybe that the command was not in your path, 
   or that the command itself does not exist. You can also manually set the path using the “set path = [directory path]” command.

❖ Is it possible to see information about a process while it is being executed?
ANS:Every process is uniquely identified by a process identifier. 
    It is possible to view details and status regarding a process by using the ps command.

❖ Differentiate cat command from more command.
ANS:When using the cat command to display file contents, large data that does not fit on the screen would scroll off without pausing,
    therefore making it difficult to view.
    On the other hand, using the more command is more appropriate in such cases because it will display file contents one screen page at a time.

❖ What is pid?
ANS:Pid is short for Process ID. It is used primarily to identify every process that runs on the UNIX system, 
    whether it runs on the foreground or runs in the background. Every pid is considered unique.

❖ How does the system know where one command ends and another begins?
ANS:Normally, the newline character, which is generated by the ENTER or RETURN key, acts as the signpost. However, 
    the semicolon and the ampersand characters can also serve as command terminators.

❖ What is the output of this command? $who | sort –logfile > newfile
ANS:In this command, the output from the command “who” becomes the input to the “sort” command. At the same time, 
    “sort” opens logfile, arranges it together with the output from the command “who”, 
    and places the final sorted output to the file newfile.

❖ What would be the effect of changing the value of PATH to: .:/usr/della/bin: /bin: /usr/bin
ANS:This would cause the shell to look in the /usr/della/bin directory after looking in the current directory and before looking in
    the /bin directory when searching for a command file.

❖ Write a command that will display files in the current directory, in a colored, long format.
ANS: ls -l –color

❖ What does this command do? cat food 1 > kitty
ANS:it redirects the output of cat food into the file kitty; the command is the same as:cat food > kitty

❖ What is wrong with this interactive shell script?
ANS: echo What month is this?read $monthecho $month is as good a month as any.

    Initially, the question mark should be escaped (\?) so that it is not interpreted as a shell metacharacter. 
    Second, it should be read month, not read $month.

❖ Describe the usage and functionality of the command “rm –r *” in UNIX?
ANS:

❖ What is the UNIX command to list files/folders in alphabetical order?
ANS: ls command
❖ What is the behavioral difference between “cmp” and “diff” commands?
ANS:

❖ What are the duties of the following commands: chmod, chown, chgrp?

❖ What is the command to find today’s date?
❖ Describe the zip/unzip command using gzip?
❖ Explain the method of changing file access permission?
❖ How to display the last line of a file?
❖ How to Kill a process in UNIX?
❖ Explain the advantage of executing processes in the background?
❖ What is the command to find maximum memory taking process on the server?
❖ What is the command to find hidden files in the current directory?
❖ What is the command to find the currently running process in Unix Server?
❖ What is the command to find remaining disk space in the UNIX server?
❖ What is the UNIX command to make a new directory?
❖ What is the method to see command line history?
❖ What is the UNIX command to find how many days the server is up?
❖ What is the purpose of the “echo” command?
❖ What is the method to edit a large file without opening it in UNIX?
❖ What is the process to count the number of characters and lines in a file?
❖ Write a command to erase all files in the current directory including all its subdirectories.
❖ What do you understand by command substitution?
❖ Enlist some commonly used network commands.
❖ How is cmp command different from diff command?
❖ Explain the types of pathnames that can be used in UNIX.
❖ Absolute Pathname: It defines a complete path specifying the location of a file/ directory from 
the beginning of the actual file system i.e. 
❖ from the root directory (/
❖ Absolute pathname addresses system configuration files that do not change location.
❖ Relative Pathname: It defines the path from the current working directory where the user is i.e. 
the present working directory (pwd
❖ Enlist some filename manipulation commands in UNIX.
❖ Explain the alias mechanism.

❖ What do you know about wildcard interpretation?
❖ Explain pid.
❖ What are the possible return values of kill
❖ What do you know about tee command and its usage?
❖ Explain mount and unmount command.
❖ What is the “chmod” command?
------------------------------------------Thank You--------------------------------------------